- [Instructor] So now let's turn our attention
to writing some unit tests for our service components.
And just as we did for our integration testing,
let's review our unit test objectives.
We will writing contact management unit test code
with the purpose of just testing the contact
management service.
In particular, the add contact method.
Since we're isolating our testing
to just the service component unit,
we are going to mock our data access component.
So for this test, we'll see something
that we didn't have to worry about
in our integration test.
Because we do not care much about the actual behavior
of a data access component, we will substitute a mock
and we will be introducing a new framework to show that.
But let's look at some of our other previews
of what else we need to instruct JUnit to do
just to begin our testing.
Just as before we're going to instruct
our JUnit test class to not load
any of our web environment or any
of our controller components.
And for the first time, we will be using mocks
so we will have to give JUnit some special
instructions to let it know how to load our mocks.
And as I mentioned, we are using
the Mockito framework which works nicely
within a JUnit test environment.
And I should also point out that
because we're mocking all things related
to data access, there is no data source
to configure or be concerned about.
So let's get started on our service
component unit testing.
So once again we're going to open up
a spring boot project.
And we're going to go to our source test Java tree
and drill down into our service package.
I'm going to open up our contacts
management service unit test.
So just as before we had to instruct JUnit
that this is a spring boot test
and for the web environment, we're choosing none.
That's our way of saying we don't want any controllers
or servlet like components to load during our test.
But unlike before, our run with instruction is
no longer a spring runner.
Instead we're using a Mockito JUnit runner.
This lets the JUnit environment know
that we will be using mock objects.
In particular, the first mock and the only mock
that we really need to be concerned about
at this time is our customer contact repository.
This is how we access the database
and get data in and out of the database,
but that component isn't ready yet
so this is the reason why we need to mock it.
And because the contacts management service
relies on that component, we also need
to supply a directive to let the JUnit runtime
environment know to inject the mocks
that we need onto this service.
The next thing I want to point out in this test is
there is a setup method which is a JUnit convention
to have a method that follows the naming convention of setup
and by supplying the before annotation,
we're saying that this is code
that we want to execute before any of our test cases.
Now let's get started working on our first test case
and we are going to test the Add Contact Happy Path.
Once again, I've gotten us started
with a customer contact object here
where I'm setting the first name Jenny
and the last name Johnson just as before.
But the difference here which I've already typed
just to save a little time, but I'm going to uncomment this,
this is a when statement which comes
from the Mockito framework and this one line of code
saves us a lot of trouble.
And the way it is written is very expressive
of what's going on here.
So let's walk through this.
What this line is saying is when a customer
contact repository receives a call on its saved method
for any customer contact class,
and simply return the mock contact.
So that will be the object that we just declared
this is our mock object.
So it'd be a good idea to set
the state of this object based on
the test case scenario you're trying to create.
Now that we're done creating our mock object
and specifying all of the mock behavior
we want to have on it, we can now test
our contacts management service.
And let's see what happens when we call Add Contact method.
And what I'm going to do right now,
even though it wants a contact object,
because we're mocking all of the data access,
we really aren't that concerned
with whatever object comes in because
we're going to receive the mock contact
with Jenny's information as a result anyway.
So it doesn't matter where we attempt to save,
we're going to get our mock object as a result.
So I'm going to go ahead and at least create
the new contact that's going to be returned
so that we can now run our JUnit.
But before we do that, let's write
at least one assertion.
We want to see whether or not we get back
the contact object with Jenny's information in it.
So I'm going to do an assert equals
and just as the last time we did an assert equals,
I'm just going to check for the first name.
I want to assert that the new contact
that comes back after my contact management
service Add is called, it should return
a new contact with a first name value is indeed Jenny.
Now we could go on with more mocking behavior,
more assertions, but for our purposes,
let's just stop here and run this JUnit.
So I'm going to minimize this class
and I'm going to right click in the package explorer
on my test AddContactHappyPath method.
And from the Run As menu, I want to choose JUnit test
and there we go.
We got our nice lovely green bar
which means our JUnit test was successful.
That means our assertion of the new contact having
Jenny's name in it actually did turn out to be true
which means our mocking behavior was
exactly what we wanted it to be.
Let's review what we just accomplished.
We created a contacts management unit test.
For the first time, we used a different kind
of runner class, specifically the Mockito runner
instead of a spring runner because we wanted
to use the Mockito framework to mock out
all of data access components.
And by doing so, we don't have to wait
on a completed data access layer
just so we can make progress on coding everything
that's needed for our service components.
And now that we've done one service unit test,
we've paved the way for many more.